---
layout: default
keywords: "EUI,  European University Institute, Max Weber fellow, SNS, Scuola Normale Superiore, LUISS, LUISS Guido Carli, post-doc, mario quaranta, publications, cv, CV, political science, sociology, political sociology, political protest, economic crisis, political participation, research, articles, article, Scuola Normale Superiore, book, books, conference, paper, researchgate, academia, googe scholar, scholar, dipartimento di scienze politiche, department of political science, democracy, political, social, european, participation, political science, social media"
permalink: /abs/fjds2018/
---

Memoli V. and M. Quaranta. 'Economic evaluations, economic freedom and democratic satisfaction in Africa.' *Journal of Development Studies*. Doi: 10.1080/00220388.2018.1502880<br/>
[Publisher link](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00220388.2018.1502880?journalCode=fjds20)

_Abstract_

This article assesses the relationship between democratic satisfaction and micro and macroeconomic factors in Africa. Studies have shown that economic factors represent a cornerstone of the democratic process. However, research has rarely accounted for the effect of economic freedom on satisfaction with democracy, and its conditional role on the effect of citizens’ economic evaluations, particularly in the context of Africa where democracy is still developing. Using various rounds of the Afrobarometer, the article analyses the link between citizens’ evaluations of the economy and economic freedom with their satisfaction with democracy in 32 African countries between 2002 and 2013. First, the findings show that the openness of the economic context and positive economic evaluations are associated with an increase in democratic satisfaction. Second, economic freedom and economic evaluations appear to have a conditional association with democratic satisfaction. In fact, positive economic evaluations are a less important factor for democratic satisfaction in contexts that have a freer economy.

Back to [publications](/publications/)
